---
layout: post
title:      "**Uncut Coder**"
date:       2018-08-19 22:39:27 +0000
permalink:  uncut_coder
---


I was in my high school Spanish class when my close friend came in and sat next to me. She was a bit stressed over her AP computer science class; she remarked that it was too much work, she had a bad teacher, and she did not enjoy it. I only knew a few things about computer science; basically that it is the study of what happens inside a computer and that it was hard. Other peers of mine in my AP chemistry class were also taking this course and they were often stressed about it as well. All of these people were very smart and I told myself I was so glad that I wanted to do chemical engineering because there would be no coding (I know I am laughing too). 

Flash-forward to my first year as a chemical engineer at UC Davis, I was in my sorority house where two of my sorority sisters were on their laptops furiously typing away. They were junior chemical engineers and I would always ask them for advice to find out what I had in store for me in the upcoming years. "We are extremely stressed we have a lab due tomorrow and our code isn't running." At this point in time I had only had general chemistry lab, with the beakers and the graduated cylinders and the Bunsen burners and I was puzzled on why they were coding and how they were doing that for a lab. I began, "Why are you coding? We have to know how to code?" "Yes of course all of your classes junior year will be coding done in a software called matlab, you did not know this?" Remembering my friend in high school I began to get so worried; I was almost done with my first year and it had gone really well and I was very excited for the rest of my years as a chemical engineering student. 

I was so paranoid but luckily my big sister in the sorority was dating a guy that worked for Facebook.  I asked her if she could ask him for some advice. He told me to start teaching myself, through a website called code academy. I began going on there for a few lessons but I did not feel like it was adequate. I decided to take the beginner computer programming class that summer at UC Davis while I was doing my internship. This class was the catalyst for my love that remains today for coding. This class was challenging and invigorating, I was so happy that I loved coding and could still be a successful engineer. I was excited for junior year to begin coding for the labs.

In the year in between I tried some other online resources such as cousera and edX for computer science classes but I needed a class at the university to ensure it is a priority while I am still in college. There was an introduction to matlab course that is required at the end of the second year in chemical engineering curiculumn. This course was exhilarating; I devoted a large portion of my time to it and even quit my lab jobs on campus to make more time for it. The following summer after my second year at Davis I began to get eager, I started learning JavaScript and ruby online course that really made me consider a minor or possible major in computer science. I thought to myself, " I will be fine there will be plenty of coding junior year, plus I am already invested in chemical engineering and I love it so why would I forge a new career path (laughing really hard now)" 

To keep me busy while I waited for these coding courses I began to look for freelance work in matlab programming with the TA from the course I had taken in the spring, we were good friends and he wanted to partner together because he noticed my passion and dedication to computer science. He was a good mentor since he was almost done with his computer science minor. I was very excited to begin the New Year with my introduction to programming class; where C programming was used as an introduction to programming. The first quarter of my junior year was hectic and stressful. I had began my upper division classes, while being a TA for a lower division class, being project manager for the UC Davis chapter of Engineers Without Borders for the Bolivia project and searching for a chemical engineering internship for the upcoming summer. Although my programming class was my favorite course I was taking at the time, I did not feel like I was giving it the adequate time it needed. I decided that taking these classes to supplement my learning would be too much to handle and I was no longer going to pursue the minor. 

After fall quarter winter break came around, I was only a few weeks away from taking the upper division lab course I had been waiting for. I was on tumblr when I saw an Ad for App Academy, a well-known coding boot camp. I was ecstatic that there was a school for just coding; I had to do this!!!! I sent in my application right away. They got back to me fairly quickly asking to do a coding challenge. I was distraught because it had been awhile since I used ruby, JavaScript or python and using matlab was not an option (#classic). I remember trying my best and only being able to get two of the three running with terrible coding style. I was confused because I thought I was doing this "boot camp" because they were going to teach me how to code. I started to do more research than what I saw on the ad and application. This was when I realized there were a plethora of different boot camps. I immediately withdrew my application from app academy. 

After doing hours of research I decided to begin self structured programming course as an avenue of admission to Hack Reactor. The prerequisite to this course was taking the Udacity free JavaScript course that they offered. I was getting comfortable with the Udacity platform when I realized there were several scholarships that were offered through Udacity. I decided to put my boot camp adventure on pause when I got admitted to the front-end development challenge course sponsored by Google. 

This three-month program taught me more about the technology industry than I think I ever could have imagined. I was and still am very grateful for this opportunity to showing me the different paths you can take and meeting so many people with different backgrounds in and out of the technology industry. I understood more of what it takes to be a software engineer. In parallel I was taking the lab course that I had been waiting since my first coding class to take. This course was amazing; I was the hardest class I had ever taken. I learned my limits and was grateful to be pushed to my fullest potential. I realized comparing matlab to front end development that matlab was not a scalable language that was used in many applications or development. It is a tool used for data visualization and data science. I quickly learned that python and R were more commonly used and learning matlab was not the most marketable skill. Reflecting back, it was interesting that this was the coding that I was “afraid” and “paranoid” over. 

Following this scholarship I also received another Udacity scholarship for a data science course. I unfortunately did not dedicate the proper time to this due to some health issues that were presented to me after traveling to Bolivia in June. I am extremely interested in machine learning and AI and I hope to pursue this more.

In the spring I decided to take the C programming course to begin my computer science minor. This was when I attended my first hackathon and became extremely in love with the capabilities of web application development. After this course was complete I knew I was interested in doing software engineering as a career. This is when I began again my boot camp research and found this amazing scholarship for women through Flatiron School. I was overwhelmed when offered a position in the program. Unfortunately, I still love chemical engineering and all of the opportunities I have had within its realm. To this day, I am unsure exactly what my career path will look like. I decided that I am going to continue to dive and become passionate about my course work and my coding projects to learn more about interests and myself. Computer programming is a broad topic and I am excited to begin to dissect it. 

This is my story; the unedited, not debugged and uncut journey that is still unraveling; hope you will join me to see what comes next!

